@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

Welcome to Pintos.  Pintos is a simple operating system framework for
the 80@var{x}86 architecture.  It supports kernel threads, loading and
running user programs, and a file system, but it implements all of
these in a very simple way.  In the Pintos tasks, you and your
task team will strengthen its support in first two of these areas.
You will also add a virtual memory implementation.

Pintos could, theoretically, run on a regular IBM-compatible PC.
Unfortunately, it is impractical to supply every @value{coursenumber} student
a dedicated PC for use with Pintos.  Therefore, we will run Pintos tasks
in a system simulator, that is, a program that simulates an 80@var{x}86
CPU and its peripheral devices accurately enough that unmodified operating
systems and software can run under it.  In particular, we will be using the
@uref{http://fabrice.bellard.free.fr/qemu/, ,
QEMU} simulator.  Pintos has also been tested with
@uref{http://www.vmware.com/, , VMware Player}.

These tasks are hard. The Pintos exercies have a reputation of taking a lot of
time, and deservedly so.  We will do what we can to reduce the workload, such
as providing a lot of support material, but there is plenty of
hard work that needs to be done.  We welcome your
feedback.  If you have suggestions on how we can reduce the unnecessary
overhead of assignments, cutting them down to the important underlying
issues, please let us know.

This version of the exercise has been adapted for use at Imperial College
London, and is significantly different to the original exercise designed at
Stanford University. It's recommended that you only use the Imperial version
of the documentation to avoid unnecessary confusion.

This chapter explains how to get started working with Pintos.  You
should read the entire chapter before you start work on any of the
tasks.

@menu
* Getting Started::             
* Submission::
* Grading::                     
* Legal and Ethical Issues::    
* Acknowledgements::            
* Trivia::                      
@end menu

@node Getting Started
@section Getting Started

To get started, you'll have to log into a machine that Pintos can be
built on.  
@localmachines{}
We will test your code on these machines, and the instructions given
here assume this environment.  We cannot provide support for installing
and working on Pintos on your own machine, but we provide instructions
for doing so nonetheless (@pxref{Installing Pintos}).

If you are using tcsh (the default shell for CSG-run machines), several Pintos
utilities will already be in your PATH. If you are not using either tcsh or a
CSG-run machine, you will need to add these utilities manually.

@localpathsetup{}

@menu
* Source Tree Overview::        
* Building Pintos::             
* Running Pintos::              
* Debugging versus Testing::    
@end menu

@node Source Tree Overview
@subsection Source Tree Overview

Now you can retrieve a copy of the source for Pintos by executing
@example
git clone @value{localpintosgitpath} pintos
@end example

Let's take a look at what's inside.  Here's the directory structure
that you should see in @file{pintos-ic/src}:

@table @file
@item threads/
Source code for the base kernel, which you will modify starting in
task 1.

@item userprog/
Source code for the user program loader, which you will modify
starting with task 2.

@item vm/
An almost empty directory.  You will implement virtual memory here in
task 3.

@item filesys/
Source code for a basic file system.  You will use this file system
starting with task 2.

@item devices/
Source code for I/O device interfacing: keyboard, timer, disk, etc.
You will modify the timer implementation in task 1.  Otherwise
you should have no need to change this code.

@item lib/
An implementation of a subset of the standard C library.  The code in
this directory is compiled into both the Pintos kernel and, starting
from task 2, user programs that run under it.  In both kernel code
and user programs, headers in this directory can be included using the
@code{#include <@dots{}>} notation.  You should have little need to
modify this code.

@item lib/kernel/
Parts of the C library that are included only in the Pintos kernel.
This also includes implementations of some data types that you are
free to use in your kernel code: bitmaps, doubly linked lists, and
hash tables.  In the kernel, headers in this
directory can be included using the @code{#include <@dots{}>}
notation.

@item lib/user/
Parts of the C library that are included only in Pintos user programs.
In user programs, headers in this directory can be included using the
@code{#include <@dots{}>} notation.

@item tests/
Tests for each task.  You can modify this code if it helps you test
your submission, but we will replace it with the originals before we run
the tests.

@item examples/
Example user programs for use starting with task 2.

@item misc/
@itemx utils/
These files may come in handy if you decide to try working with Pintos
on your own machine.  Otherwise, you can ignore them.
@end table

@node Building Pintos
@subsection Building Pintos

As the next step, build the source code supplied for
the first task.  First, @command{cd} into the @file{threads}
directory.  Then, issue the @samp{make} command.  This will create a
@file{build} directory under @file{threads}, populate it with a
@file{Makefile} and a few subdirectories, and then build the kernel
inside.  The entire build should take less than 30 seconds.

@localcrossbuild{}

Following the build, the following are the interesting files in the
@file{build} directory:

@table @file
@item Makefile
A copy of @file{pintos-ic/src/Makefile.build}.  It describes how to build
the kernel.  @xref{Adding Source Files}, for more information.

@item kernel.o
Object file for the entire kernel.  This is the result of linking
object files compiled from each individual kernel source file into a
single object file.  It contains debug information, so you can run
GDB (@pxref{GDB}) or @command{backtrace} (@pxref{Backtraces}) on it.

@item kernel.bin
Memory image of the kernel, that is, the exact bytes loaded into
memory to run the Pintos kernel.  This is just @file{kernel.o} with
debug information stripped out, which saves a lot of space, which in
turn keeps the kernel from bumping up against a @w{512 kB} size limit
imposed by the kernel loader's design.

@item loader.bin
Memory image for the kernel loader, a small chunk of code written in
assembly language that reads the kernel from disk into memory and
starts it up.  It is exactly 512 bytes long, a size fixed by the
PC BIOS.
@end table

Subdirectories of @file{build} contain object files (@file{.o}) and
dependency files (@file{.d}), both produced by the compiler.  The
dependency files tell @command{make} which source files need to be
recompiled when other source or header files are changed.

@node Running Pintos
@subsection Running Pintos

We've supplied a program for conveniently running Pintos in a simulator,
called @command{pintos}.  In the simplest case, you can invoke
@command{pintos} as @code{pintos @var{argument}@dots{}}.  Each
@var{argument} is passed to the Pintos kernel for it to act on.

Try it out.  First @command{cd} into the newly created @file{build}
directory.  Then issue the command @code{pintos run alarm-multiple},
which passes the arguments @code{run alarm-multiple} to the Pintos
kernel.  In these arguments, @command{run} instructs the kernel to run a
test and @code{alarm-multiple} is the test to run.

Pintos boots and runs the @code{alarm-multiple} test
program, which outputs a few screenfuls of text.
You can log serial output to a file by redirecting at the
command line, e.g.@: @code{pintos run alarm-multiple > logfile}.

The @command{pintos} program offers several options for configuring the
simulator or the virtual hardware.  If you specify any options, they
must precede the commands passed to the Pintos kernel and be separated
from them by @option{--}, so that the whole command looks like
@code{pintos @var{option}@dots{} -- @var{argument}@dots{}}.  Invoke
@code{pintos} without any arguments to see a list of available options.
You can run the simulator with a debugger (@pxref{GDB}). You can also set the 
amount of memory to give the VM.

The Pintos kernel has commands and options other than @command{run}.
These are not very interesting for now, but you can see a list of them
using @option{-h}, e.g.@: @code{pintos -h}.

@node Debugging versus Testing
@subsection Debugging versus Testing

The QEMU simulator you will be using to run Pintos only supports real-time
simulations. This has ramifications with regards to both testing and debugging.

Whilst reproducibility is extremely useful for debugging, running Pintos in
QEMU is not necessarily deterministic. You should keep this in mind when
testing for bugs in your code. In each run, timer interrupts will come at
irregularly spaced intervals, meaning that bugs may appear and disappear with
repeated tests. Therefore it's very important that you run through the tests at
least few times. No number of runs can guarantee that your synchronisation is
perfect, but the more you do, the more confident you can be that your code
doesn't have major flaws. 

@node Submission
@section Submission
When you are finished with a task, you can submit it via CATE as a 
@code{tar.gz} archive:

@itemize @bullet
@item Run @code{make clean} from the top-level @code{pintos-ic} directory, 
@item Run  @code{tar -czvf task@var{[number]}.tar.gz pintos-ic} from its parent directory, 
@item Submit the resulting archive file via CATE.
@end itemize

@node Grading
@section Grading

We will grade your assignments based on test results and design quality,
each of which comprises 50% of your grade.

Task 0 (completing the introductory worksheet handed out through CATE)
and Task 1 will contribute towards your Operating Systems coursework mark,
while Tasks 2 and 3 will contribute towards your Laboratory work mark.

@menu
* Testing::                     
* Design::                      
@end menu

@node Testing
@subsection Testing

Your test result grade will be based on our tests.  Each task has
several tests, each of which has a name beginning with @file{tests}.
To completely test your submission, invoke @code{make check} from the
task @file{build} directory.  This will build and run each test and
print a ``pass'' or ``fail'' message for each one.  When a test fails,
@command{make check} also prints some details of the reason for failure.
After running all the tests, @command{make check} also prints a summary
of the test results.

You can also run individual tests one at a time.  A given test @var{t}
writes its output to @file{@var{t}.output}, then a script scores the
output as ``pass'' or ``fail'' and writes the verdict to
@file{@var{t}.result}.  To run and grade a single test, @command{make}
the @file{.result} file explicitly from the @file{build} directory, e.g.@:
@code{make tests/threads/alarm-multiple.result}.  If @command{make} says
that the test result is up-to-date, but you want to re-run it anyway,
either run @code{make clean} or delete the @file{.output} file by hand.

By default, each test provides feedback only at completion, not during
its run.  If you prefer, you can observe the progress of each test by
specifying @option{VERBOSE=1} on the @command{make} command line, as in
@code{make check VERBOSE=1}.  You can also provide arbitrary options to the
@command{pintos} run by the tests with @option{PINTOSOPTS='@dots{}'}.

All of the tests and related files are in @file{pintos-ic/src/tests}.
Before we test your submission, we will replace the contents of that
directory by a pristine, unmodified copy, to ensure that the correct
tests are used.  Thus, you can modify some of the tests if that helps in
debugging, but we will run the originals.

All software has bugs, so some of our tests may be flawed.  If you think
a test failure is a bug in the test, not a bug in your code,
please point it out.  We will look at it and fix it if necessary.

Please don't try to take advantage of our generosity in giving out our
test suite.  Your code has to work properly in the general case, not
just for the test cases we supply.  For example, it would be unacceptable
to explicitly base the kernel's behavior on the name of the running
test case.  Such attempts to side-step the test cases will receive no
credit.  If you think your solution may be in a gray area here, please
ask us about it.

@node Design
@subsection Design

We will judge your design based on the design document and the source
code that you submit.  We will read your entire design document and much
of your source code.  

Don't forget that design quality, including the design document, is 50%
of your task grade.  It
is better to spend one or two hours writing a good design document than
it is to spend that time getting the last 5% of the points for tests and
then trying to rush through writing the design document in the last 15
minutes.

@menu
* Design Document::             
* Source Code::                 
@end menu

@node Design Document
@subsubsection Design Document

We provide a design document template for each task.  For each
significant part of a task, the template asks questions in four
areas: 

@table @strong
@item Data Structures

The instructions for this section are always the same:

@quotation
Copy here the declaration of each new or changed @code{struct} or
@code{struct} member, global or static variable, @code{typedef}, or
enumeration.  Identify the purpose of each in 25 words or less.
@end quotation

The first part is mechanical.  Just copy new or modified declarations
into the design document, to highlight for us the actual changes to data
structures.  Each declaration should include the comment that should
accompany it in the source code (see below).

We also ask for a very brief description of the purpose of each new or
changed data structure.  The limit of 25 words or less is a guideline
intended to save your time and avoid duplication with later areas.

@item Algorithms

This is where you tell us how your code works, through questions that
probe your understanding of your code.  We might not be able to easily
figure it out from the code, because many creative solutions exist for
most OS problems.  Help us out a little.

Your answers should be at a level below the high level description of
requirements given in the assignment.  We have read the assignment too,
so it is unnecessary to repeat or rephrase what is stated there.  On the
other hand, your answers should be at a level above the low level of the
code itself.  Don't give a line-by-line run-down of what your code does.
Instead, use your answers to explain how your code works to implement
the requirements.

@item Synchronization

An operating system kernel is a complex, multithreaded program, in which
synchronizing multiple threads can be difficult.  This section asks
about how you chose to synchronize this particular type of activity.

@item Rationale

Whereas the other sections primarily ask ``what'' and ``how,'' the
rationale section concentrates on ``why.''  This is where we ask you to
justify some design decisions, by explaining why the choices you made
are better than alternatives.  You may be able to state these in terms
of time and space complexity, which can be made as rough or informal
arguments (formal language or proofs are unnecessary).
@end table

An incomplete, evasive, or non-responsive design document or one that
strays from the template without good reason may be penalized.
Incorrect capitalization, punctuation, spelling, or grammar can also
cost points.  @xref{Task Documentation}, for a sample design document
for a fictitious task.

@node Source Code
@subsubsection Source Code

Your design will also be judged by looking at your source code.  We will
typically look at the differences between the original Pintos source
tree and your submission, based on the output of a command like
@code{diff -urpb pintos.orig pintos.submitted}.  We will try to match up your
description of the design with the code submitted.  Important
discrepancies between the description and the actual code will be
penalized, as will be any bugs we find by spot checks.

The most important aspects of source code design are those that
specifically relate to the operating system issues at stake in the
task. Other issues are much less important.  For example, multiple
Pintos design problems call for a ``priority queue,'' that is, a dynamic
collection from which the minimum (or maximum) item can quickly be
extracted.  Fast priority queues can be implemented many ways, but we do
not expect you to build a fancy data structure even if it might improve
performance.  Instead, you are welcome to use a linked list (and Pintos
even provides one with convenient functions for sorting and finding
minimums and maximums).

Pintos is written in a consistent style.  Make your additions and
modifications in existing Pintos source files blend in, not stick out.
In new source files, adopt the existing Pintos style by preference, but
make your code self-consistent at the very least.  There should not be a
patchwork of different styles that makes it obvious that three different
people wrote the code.  Use horizontal and vertical white space to make
code readable.  Add a brief comment on every structure, structure
member, global or static variable, typedef, enumeration, and function
definition.  Update
existing comments as you modify code.  Don't comment out or use the
preprocessor to ignore blocks of code (instead, remove it entirely).
Use assertions to document key invariants.  Decompose code into
functions for clarity.  Code that is difficult to understand because it
violates these or other ``common sense'' software engineering practices
will be penalized.

In the end, remember your audience.  Code is written primarily to be
read by humans.  It has to be acceptable to the compiler too, but the
compiler doesn't care about how it looks or how well it is written.

@node Legal and Ethical Issues
@section Legal and Ethical Issues

Pintos is distributed under a liberal license that allows free use,
modification, and distribution.  Students and others who work on Pintos
own the code that they write and may use it for any purpose.
Pintos comes with NO WARRANTY, not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
@xref{License}, for details of the license and lack of warranty.

@localhonorcodepolicy{}

@node Acknowledgements
@section Acknowledgements

The Pintos core and this documentation were originally written by Ben
Pfaff @email{blp@@cs.stanford.edu}.

Additional features were contributed by Anthony Romano
@email{chz@@vt.edu}.

The GDB macros supplied with Pintos were written by Godmar Back
@email{gback@@cs.vt.edu}, and their documentation is adapted from his
work.

The original structure and form of Pintos was inspired by the Nachos
instructional operating system from the University of California,
Berkeley (@bibref{Christopher}).

The Pintos tasks and documentation originated with those designed for
Nachos by current and former CS 140 teaching assistants at Stanford
University, including at least Yu Ping, Greg Hutchins, Kelly Shaw, Paul
Twohey, Sameer Qureshi, and John Rector.

Example code for monitors (@pxref{Monitors}) is
from classroom slides originally by Dawson Engler and updated by Mendel
Rosenblum.

Additional modifications were made to the documentation and code when adapting
it for use at Imperial College London by Mark Rutland and Feroz Abdul Salam.

@localcredits{}

@node Trivia
@section Trivia

Pintos originated as a replacement for Nachos with a similar design.
Since then Pintos has greatly diverged from the Nachos design.  Pintos
differs from Nachos in two important ways.  First, Pintos runs on real
or simulated 80@var{x}86 hardware, but Nachos runs as a process on a
host operating system.  Second, Pintos is written in C like most
real-world operating systems, but Nachos is written in C++.

Why the name ``Pintos''?  First, like nachos, pinto beans are a common
Mexican food.  Second, Pintos is small and a ``pint'' is a small amount.
Third, like drivers of the eponymous car, students are likely to have
trouble with blow-ups.
