@c Local settings

@set coursenumber OS211 
@set localpintosgitpath /vol/lab/secondyear/osexercise/pintos.git
@set localpintosbindir /vol/lab/secondyear/bin/ 

@set recommendvnc
@clear recommendcygwin

@macro localmachines{}
The machines officially supported for OS211 Pintos development are
the Linux machines in the labs managed by CSG, as described on
the @uref{http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/csg/facilities/lab/workstations, ,
CSG webpage}.  
@end macro

@macro localpathsetup{}
Pintos utilities can be located at @value{localpintosbindir} on CSG-run
lab machines.
@end macro

@macro localcrossbuild{}
Watch the commands executed during the build.  On the Linux machines,
the ordinary system tools are used.  
@end macro

@macro localhonorcodepolicy{}
Please respect the plagiarism policy by refraining 
from reading any homework solutions available online or elsewhere. Reading 
the source code for other operating system kernels, such as Linux or FreeBSD, 
is allowed, but do not copy code from them literally.  Please cite the code 
that inspired your own in your design documentation.
@end macro

@macro localcredits{}
@c none needed
@end macro

@macro localgitpolicy{}
Instead, we recommend integrating your team's changes early and often,
using a source code control system such as Git (@pxref{Git}), for which
the Pintos-ic folder has already been set up for.

This is less likely to produce surprises, because everyone can see
everyone else's code as it is written, instead of just when it is
finished.  These systems also make it possible to review changes and,
when a change introduces a bug, drop back to working versions of code.
@end macro

@macro localcodingstandards{}
All of you should be familiar with good coding standards by now. This project
will be much easier to complete and grade if you maintain the code style used
in the original code, and employ sensible variable naming policies. Code style
makes up a large part of your final grade for this work, and will be 
scrutinised carefully
@end macro

@macro localdevelopmenttools{}
@c Descriptions of additional, local development tools can be inserted here
@end macro
